Hi and welcome come back in this video we're going to be going over the assignment which is to create
a linked list.
However I'm not going to just put you into the deep end so I'm going to give you a few pointers and
I'm going to help you in setting this assignment up.
I don't so I'm not going to require you to create the linked list from scratch.
I'm going to give you quite a lot of code and I'm going to ask you to essentially implement a couple
of methods that are going to test your knowledge and your ability to think but won't be as complicated
as just thinking up a linked list from scratch what you'll see in the very next lecture is something
like you're seeing in my screen right now which is the assignment text.
It's not very detailed on purpose because I wanted to give you a bit of a challenge so I'm not telling
you exactly everything that you have to type but I'm going to give you a few pointers what to look at
in the next video or sorry in the next lecture which is a text lecture is about what you have to do
which is implement two methods in the code I provide you.
The methods are to add to the list in the beginning of the list and to find a method in the linked list
.
So to find a node apologies I said to find a method and then I also give you some information about
how to add to the list.
I give you some pseudo code which is not Python code.
There's not any type of code is just pseudo code doesn't execute.
It's just for your convenience to kind of understand a bit more and what the method should do.
And I also gave you some information about the find method and also give you some pseudo code about
what this method should do to go back to the add to list method.
This you'd see if the list's route is set.
If it isn't set then the root should become the new node and if it is sent then the root the new node
should be the new nodes next node should be equal to the root and then the root should once again be
equal to the new node.
So the pseudocode here tells you the method is called add to list and it takes in as a parameter the
new node if the route has a value i.e. it is not None.
Then make the new nodes next equal to the current root.
Finally at the end make the roots equal to the new node.
I understand this is not Python code this is not what you have to type but it should help you in understanding
a bit more and giving it a go.
That's what's important here.
Give it a go try it out.
Make mistakes and then see how that goes.
Find Rathod should create a variable which I normally call marker which will store the node at each
iteration of your list and initialize the marker to be the root of the list.
Then check if the doctor's name is equal to the name that we're looking for in the find method we're
looking for a specific student name and if it is equal then return the marker and if it isn't move over
to the next node and the pseudocode here says just that the method is called Find and then initializes
a variable to be the root of what the marker has a value.
It is not None.
Check if the markers name is equal to the name that we're looking for which is the parameter.
And if it is returned the marker if it isn't we haven't returned then set the marker variable to be
the markers next note that moves you over to the next node in the list.
And then we will go back to the beginning of the why loop.
Check this again and move over to the next node and so on and so on.
Eventually if we have not returned but the marker does not have a value that means we've reached the
end of the list.
If that is the case we're going to raise an exception because we couldn't find the name in the list
.
OK.
Now once again I do apologize because this is not the code.
You have to write but I wanted to give you a bit of a challenge.
We are going to be going over how to implement this in the following video.
After the assignment to get started all you have to do is download the zip file which is in the resources
available on the top left or at the very bottom of the assignment and text.
And then once you've downloaded it just double click it.
Drag the files into a folder and open the folder with my chum so let's do that just now when I click
it and that'll download the file and then all we have to do is open up the zip file with Python.
So I've got it open here.
This is the folder that you'll receive.
It has three files linked list node and pests the node now I'm going to be going over what the code
kind of means in a higher level and give you a chance to implement it yourselves.
The node is the class that contains the information about what we're storing on the list such as the
name matriculation number and year of the student.
And also it contains the next node.
The one that comes after this one in the linked list remember.
Each node knows where the next nudies the list itself only knows where the root node or the starting
node is.
So that's how this works by each node knowing where the next one is or rather what node The next is
in the in its method the class.
Just initialises the three properties name metric and year from three parameters and then sets the next
note to be none.
Notice that I've made the next known a private variable by adding two underscores in front that is so
that other programs and other classes cannot modify these very people directly.
Then what I've done is created two method sent next and get next to be able to change the value of the
next property or to retrieve the value of the next property.
I've done that so that when setting the next value I can check whether the node is of class Node or
not.
This one let me for example set to the next note to be a string or a number will only let me set to
the next node to be a node object.
And this is how you check if something is of a specific type is instance then the variable you are checking
.
And then that type in this case.
I'm asking whether the node parameter to this method is of type node which is the class that I mean
.
So I'm only able to sense the next node to be this parameter if that parameter is of type node or if
it is named that way.
I can also unset the next property by making it.
So if that is the case then I say self don't next equals node.
And that just sent the next the underscore in that context property.
And if it isn't of type node or it isn't nutten then I'm going to raise a type error and say that the
next node must be of type node or none.
So that's where the next set next method does.
And they get next.
So Lee returns the underscore underscore next property.
Finally print details is the method I've created to print out some information about this note such
as the metric number the name and the year of the student that this note represents.
That's everything for the node.
Now let's go and look at the linked list.
The class linked list is the one that you should be modifying so you don't have to change the Node class
at all.
The only thing you have to change is in this class and you have to implement the methods that currently
raising not implemented era.
And those are the two that I mentioned earlier added to list and find those are the only two methods
that raise a not implemented error.
So you have to implement these two methods here by deleting these comments and instead we're deleting
all of this.
And instead of writing the implementation of the method for your convenience and also to give you a
bit of a tip.
I've also implemented for you the print list method which iterates over the list printing the details
of every node as you go along.
Reading this Methody understanding it will definitely help you in implementing the find method.
It will not help you in implementing the add to list method but that one is a bit simpler and with some
thought I'm sure you can implement it properly.
Now how will you know if you've implemented things properly or not.
Well that's where the tests file comes in.
Using the unit test library that we looked at in the last section I have written some tests that you
can run.
All you have to do is right click the file in Python and run unit tests in Tests.
Once you do that the tests will run and they should pass.
But currently they don't because things are not implemented.
If you see any failed errors and fail tests that means you have not finished or you've not implemented
things properly.
So give it another go.
Look at the errors or where the tests fail.
But if you're confused or you don't know where to look or what to do.
Please as always ask questions in the course forums.
Send me a message or you know that.
Well that's what to do really pose a question and of course forms and I will help you out as soon as
possible.
And this is going to provide a bit of a challenge I'm sure but also some good experience for you to
learn more about programming and about the data structure that we've got here which is the linked list
.
So without further ado please go into the next section in the next lecture which is the text lecture
where you can download the zip file and give this a go.
So that's it.
And I'll see you in the video after that where we are going to be implementing a solution to this please
don't go straight into that video.
Do try to implement this on your own first.
That's it.
And I'll see you in the very next video.